However, many of them remain due to the protective elements present in the liquid that surrounds them. Then the sperm must make its way through the cervix to the womb. Usually the cervix remains tightly closed, but in this case it is open for days, which is the ovulation period for a woman Sperm swim through cervical mucus, which weakened to more aqueous consistency to facilitate passage Once inside the cervix. The sperm continues to swim towards the uterus. Even though millions will die trying to make it through mucus, Some sperms remain trapped in the cervical folds, but may then continue as a precautionary journey to the first group. Intrauterine muscle uterine contractions assist the sperm on their journey towards the egg, Non-resident cells of a woman's immune system mistaking sperm for foreign invaders, destroying thousands of others. The second half of the sperm head of the fallopian tube is empty, while the other half swims towards a tube containing the unfertilized egg. Right Now, Only a few thousand stay Inside the fallopian tubes, small cilia of eggs, pushed towards the uterus To follow the sperm. You must rise against this movement to reach the egg. Some sperm get trapped in cilia and die During this part of the chemicals. A trip into the reproductive system causes the membranes covering the sperm's heads to change. As a result, the sperm becomes overactive Swim stronger and faster towards their destination. At long last, wait the spam hit the eggs. Only a few dozen of the original 300 million sperm remain. The eggs are covered with a layer of cells called corona radiata. The sperm must be pushed through this layer to reach the outer layer of the transparent, Zona egg. When the sperm reached the transparent zona, they attached to the specialized sperm receptors on the surface That releases acrosomes to release digestive enzymes. Enable sperm to dig into a layer Inside the transparent region are fluids that fill the narrow space outside the egg cell membrane. The first sperm to make and contact fertilization of the egg After an incredibly risky and adventurous trip, one sperm attaches to an egg cell membrane Within a few minutes. The outer membranes of the valves and eggs pull the sperm inside. This event causes changes in the egg membrane that prevents other sperm from sticking to it. Next chemicals releases eggs that push other sperm away from the eggs And creating an impenetrable fertilization membrane, As the transparent reaction spreads outside the zona hardens trapping. Any sperm is unlucky enough to be caught inside Outside the eggs. The sperm are no longer able to attach to the transparent zona. At the same time, inside the egg, the male genetic material tightly packed, spreads out For new membrane forms around the genetic material. Creating the male prokaryotic nucleus Inside repairs, the genetic material in chromosomes 23, The female genetic material woke up merging the sperm, with the egg ending division Resulting in the progenitor of the female nucleus, which also contains 23 chromosomes. Male and female pronuclei also formed Spider threads. Like the Internet called Microtubules, pull them towards each other, She joined two sets of chromosomes together. Completion of the fertilization process at this moment creates a unique genetic code Instantly, determine gender hair, color eye color and hundreds of other characteristics. This new single cell, the fertilized egg, is the beginning of a new person, And now the cilia of the fallopian tubes gently sweep the fertilized egg towards the uterus, Where he or she will transplant into the endometrium richer Growth and maturity in the next nine months. To be ready for birth, 